Most instances require no special resource management do not need to be open or closed, except those
that use an audio channel, which I'll be discussing later in the IO videos.
At a minimum, a stream pipeline consists of a source and a terminal operation.
I've already shown you examples of these in the stream.
Create an example class in the last video.
But let's look at a few more examples now, we need to create a new class in our streams project, call
this one stream pipeline.
Or so first, they ignore these unused imports and this unused Jetta because they were used later in
the video.
So this person class simply has a name attribute, as you can see there in line 16.
It takes the name in the constructor and prints the name in the string method at the bottom of the screen.
But note also that the constructor prints the name that'll help us determine when the person objects
are actually instantiated.
So scrolling down, we've got our stream popline class.
That's got two methods.
Plus one is to get new person method, which returns a new person randomly selecting a name.
Then we've got our main method, which starts out with a single statement pipeline.
The source is created and a terminal operation invoked on a single line, then got a multiple statement
pipeline where the source is created using a supplier lambda expression, parsing it to get a new person
method.
So a process, other stuff in the fall on line fifty for this is demonstrating that pipeline processing
has not yet occurred.
It's growing a bit more and then adding an intermediate operation limit to the pipeline.
We need this limit otherwise would have an infinite stream and it's a self referencing result to a current
local variable person stream.
In this case, an invocation of an intermediate operation does not actually execute the operation lazy
and then processing other stuff in the second follow line.
Sixty four demonstrating the pipeline processing is still not yet occurred.
And finally, a line sixty nine.
I execute the pipeline operations for the person stream when I fact the terminal operation for each
method to print out the data from this.
And there's the output of this output confirms that the stream to generate method is lazy.
If you recall, I declared it before the loop and yet the method get new person instantiating new objects,
which I can see because I print the person's name in.
The constructor was not executed until later when I terminated the popline with the for each method.
Note that when you run this, your person names may vary since the method get new person randomly assigned
a name.
The intermediate operations fall into one of two categories, stateless and stateful stateless operations
such as filter and map, retain no state from one element to the next and can be processed independently.
Stateful operations, on the other hand, such as distinct, unsorted, have an innate relationship
with other elements and may maintain some state.
The table below is a quick list of the intermediate operations they'll be looking at in detail in future
videos.
So let's look first at the statelets, intermediate operations.
We've got Futter flat map, flat map to double, flat map to inturn flat map to long limit map, map
to double map to it and mapped along a peak and skip.
And in terms of stateful intermediate operations, distinct drop while introduced in Javani and we've
got sorted and take while also introduced in Java nine.
The swinging back to the code.
Let's look at another example.
Firstly, what we want to do is go back up to our person class, but we want to comment out the top
Pritikin in our constructor.
The reason is we're about to create a list of 20 persons and we want to see the statement in the output
any longer.
But what next?
Let's go back to our main method in a patient code right at the bottom.
Let's say we get name on line eighty seven.
We're also using the list and a list of the inputs are being used.
Let's go back to that cardigan that I posted in.
So I'm creating a list of 20 randomly generated persons, so I'm using this stream so you can see a
lot.
Seventy eight to create a chained pipeline to count the number of gym person objects.
I repeat the process, but without training this time starting on line eighty five, using statements
to add intermediate operations to the code for both the trained pipeline and the not trained pipeline
operations.
Both use an intermediate operation called Filter and a terminal operation called Count.
Don't worry too much yet about understanding them just how they're executed, both in the change pipeline
and alternatively in the not changed version.
Let's run this code now.
And we can see the output at the bottom of the screen there, but your results might differ.
You can see it doesn't matter, though, whether you change or not either method produces account of
a particularly named person, Jim or Mary, in these examples.
So let's play some more Codan here.
Their main method.
Let's run this.
And you can see that we've got an illegal statement, exceptions stream has already been operated upon
or closed.
So you get this illegal stat exception message when you try to execute another terminal operation on
a stream pipeline that had already been processed by a previous terminal operation, and that was the
case in count in our not chained pipeline.
So let's remove that.
So again, and of course, running it should work again.
There's a map put at the bottom of the screen.
It's important to know which operations are intermediate and which are terminal.
You'll be tested on what happens if operations are not in the correct order, etc..
Next, it's important to know that some operations are short circuiting operations.
An intermediate operation is short circuiting if when presented with input and input, it may produce
a finite stream as a result.
And we saw this when we used limit for online 61 earlier in this video.
A terminal operation is short circuiting if when presented with infinite input, it might terminate
in finite time, a short circuiting operation in a pipeline on an infinite stream is necessary, but
may not always be sufficient to terminate the pipeline normally in finite time.
So swinging back to the car, let's look at a short circuiting terminal operation, the posting some
code here and our main method, there's the code.
So here I create another infinite stream of person objects, but I do not use the limit operation,
instead I match on the first aronne object.
If you run this.
So the put shown below and the execution completed successfully as a result.
But what happens, never change to get a new person method.
Let's have a go at doing that.
We're going to change it.
That currently looks like.
You see there online.
Thirty seven, we're going to replace those three lines in the method.
So here have changed the parameter of next into three main.
The code is never going to create a person named Aaron because obviously that's the fourth element.
Now, if we run this code again.
This time, executing the code does not terminate.
You can say it's hanging there because the terminal operation never matches on an errant object.
So this confirms the statement that a short circuiting operation in a pipeline on an infinite stream
is necessary but may not always be sufficient to terminate the pipeline normally in finite time.
Let's break out of this code.
I will undo that change.
Go back to that now, Wick's.
So this video and the previous one, I've covered the following items using the stream static factory
methods to create streams in many ways, as well as using the collection stream method on any implementing
object of the collection interface.
We covered the structure of a stream pipeline.
We covered terminal operations.
We also covered intermediate operations, both stateless and stateful, and showed how they're lazy
and do not execute in to a terminal operation is invoked.
The finally we went through an introduction to short circuiting operations.
So let's end the video here.
And in the next one I'll be discussing using lambda expressions with streams.
See you in the next video.